=================
Overview
=================

----------------------------------------
System Architecture
----------------------------------------

----------------------------------------
Using the pi-top
----------------------------------------

----------------------------------------
Doing physical computing with pi-top [4]
----------------------------------------

Ports/pins
======================================

The pi-top Maker Architecture (PMA) connector on the pi-top [4] makes available all GPIO from the Raspberry Pi to the Foundation and Expansion Plates.

This means that the ports located in these plates are mapped to the GPIO header on the Raspberry Pi, providing easy and standard access through Grove connectors
to these pins.

Plate connections
======================================

Foundation and Expansion Plates have multiple connectors that can be used to interface with different kind components.

These ports are labeled and coloured to simplify

Digital Ports
-----------------------------

Used to communicate with digital devices.

These ports are labeled from `D0` to `D7`

Analog Ports
-----------------------------

Used to communicate with analog devices.

Since Raspberry Pi can't actually read analog signals, these are first processed by an Analog to Digital Converter (DAC) located inside the Foundation & Expansion Plates.
This device converts the analog electric signal from the component into a digital signal, that can be interpreted by the Raspberry Pi.

These ports are labeled from `A0` to `A3`.

Motor Ports
-----------------------------

Communicates a motor encoder component with the motor controller, located inside the Expansion Plate.

These ports are labeled from `M0` to `M3`

ServoMotor Ports
-----------------------------

Communicates a servo motor component with the servomotor controller, located inside the Expansion Plate.

These ports are labeled from `S0` to `S3`

I2C Ports
-----------------------------

Used to communicate with generic I2C devices.

These ports are labeled as `I2C`.


Identifying PMA port for a component
======================================

The components included in the Foundation Kit & Robotics Kit can be classified according to how they operate and communicate.

.. _digital-input-component:

Digital Input component
----------------------------------------

A component that generates data in form of digital signals when an event occurs.

These components should be connected to the Digital ports on the Foundation/Expansion Plates, labeled from `D0` to `D7`.

.. _digital-output-component:

Digital Output component
----------------------------------------

A component that can be controlled using digital signals, which are generated by the Raspberry Pi and communicated to the component through the Foundation/Expansion Plate.

These components should be connected to the Digital ports on the Foundation/Expansion Plates, labeled from `D0` to `D7`.

.. _analog-input-component:

Analog Input component
----------------------------------------

A component that generates data in form of analog signals.


These components should be connected to the Analog ports on the Foundation/Expansion Plates, labeled from `A0` to `A3`.

.. _motor-component:

Motor component
----------------------------------------

An electromechanical component that is controlled by communicating with a microprocessor located inside the Expansion Plate.

These components should be connected to the Motor ports on the Expansion Plate, labeled from `M0` to `M3`.

.. _servomotor-component:

ServoMotor component
----------------------------------------

An electromechanical component that is controlled by communicating with a microprocessor located inside the Expansion Plate.

These components should be connected to the ServoMotor ports on the Expansion Plate, labeled from `S0` to `S3`.

----------------------------------------
Using peripherals
----------------------------------------

----------------------------------------
Making use of additional helper classes
----------------------------------------
